>> Sean Larkin: And so you know the birth
of JavaScript modules happened kind of
around this early period
thanks to Node.js.
Who uses Node.js as like I mean,
we all use it everyday.
If you're using webpack,
you're using node, you rely on node.
Node is the canonical
like you will find and
maybe some, I know some .NET
people don't like hearing this but
if you want to build a canonical web
application, be prepared to install node.
It is foundational for
not only how we get packages,
how we share packages, how we run our
tools, our linters, our commands.
And so Node.js,
you have a problem here like node is
JavaScript that runs on the server, right?
They took theV8 engine and shove it in
a like a binary and give it a runtime for
the server side, but how do you load
JavaScript if there's no DOM, right?
How do you add a script tag
if there is no HTML in node,
right, so that was the issue.
And that is when the birth
of CommonJS came
about.
>> Sean Larkin: And so, what you'll see
here is just a little example where
you have three separate files.
And to be able to actually
include other files,
they created the CommonJS module format.
The use a syntax called require,
which allows you to
inject other pieces of a module
into the current module.
So in here, we just we see I just broken
it up into three separate files, but
we had division.js.
And so the syntax is used for CommonJS,
you can have a default export or
you can have named exports.
And so we're looking at a default
export here which allows you to,
and the syntax is module.exports.
And it's just a function that takes two
arguments, and returns the division for
it, or the modulus,
I can't remember which one that is.
And then, we have another file that's
pulling in the division, and you can see
since it's just a default export,
we can name it whatever the heck we want.
And, this module is defining
some named exports.
So this is saying exports.add,
exports.subtract, exports.divide.
And so that is this module's
way of providing that scope or
those values to another file
if it wants to request it.
So if we go up to our index.js here,
we're actually pulling in these
named exports, which all just
get put under an object called
the default export, and get required.
And then this way, so
now we've just solved some scope.
We just solved scope here
without iffies or anything.
We now can pull in pieces of values,
assign them to variables in a different
module without having problems
with scope or anything like that.
And actually kinda gave us
a little static analysis, right,
we can tell right here exactly
what is used for the most part.
This is when the explosion
of JavaScript starts.
Like you may hear people,
you may hear me say like JavaScript
is taking over the world
as a programming language,
as a platform, as a way to rapidly
develop and create fast running
applications.
>> Sean Larkin: And it still boggles me
today, like how new programming languages
that get created don't adapt these models.
But like you think about it there is NPM,
it is so
easy to ship whatever module you want.
And so NPM was created as a package
registry to be able to share
CommonJS node modules across
an entire ecosystem and registry.
And it's super easy to get started,
NPM install whatever the heck I want.
>> Sean Larkin: And so, like the hyper
mass distribution, everybody's
starting to write all of their tools,
all of their scripts, all of their
utilities in JavaScript on node.
And the module system really
cause this pre-Cambrian just
explosion of the evolving ecosystem.
And even today it's even faster.
But what are these problems?
There's still problems here.
There is no browser support for CommonJS.
You can't just go write a CommonJS
module and load it in the browser.
There's no live bindings, and this is
specifically with circular references.
So, as more modules
started to be created and
the ecosystem keeps rapidly developing,
we started finding out like people are
using modules in very interesting ways.
Trying to self-referral and
having circular dependencies and
things like that.
And this really starts to
show itself through CommonJS.
>> Sean Larkin: And the resolution
algorithm for CommonJS is kinda slow,
it's really slow.
And it's built in to know, but it's still
really, really slow cuz it's synchronous.
By the way,
did I say there's no browser support for
CommonJS.
>> Sean Larkin: But
is there a solution?
>> Sean Larkin: So, you'll start noticing
that also people started wanting to
ship their web modules through NPM.
Like NPM was this huge instant.
Like think of the time when you're
writing web development three years ago.
It was like, you had to go to a CDM or
a GitHub distro,
pull something down,
concatenate it together.
And to a lot of people,
that was unacceptable,
especially those who were using Node.
They were like, why don't we just ship
these libraries out of Node.js, right,
or NPM?
And so people started doing that,
but they would find out, crap,
this CommonJS doesn't work.
And so this is when bundlers and
linkers we're really starting to take
a popularity.
>> Sean Larkin: Who's heard of Browserify?
Yep, who's heard of modules WebMake?
[LAUGH] No, it's not very popular, but
you'll find out why it's super important.
But these bundlers started to be created,
what they do,
their main premise is to allow
you to write CommonJS modules.
But then it get bundled, and
stripping those statements, and
then executed in the same orders so
that it works in the web
exactly as it might work or
you would expected to work in your code.
We all started to see different
approaches like loaders, or
things that like JavaScripts that executes
in the browser that's responsible for
going in dynamically realtime fetching,
different module formats.
>> Sean Larkin: But
there's also problems with this.
>> Sean Larkin: CommonJS is,
when you look at it here,
it doesn't look too harmful.
But the problem is that require is
actually a function that you can
pass anywhere.
And so, we started seeing
people abuse the crap out of
CommonJS syntax, like I love Sindre Sorhus.
Does anybody know who Sindre Sorhus is?
He's probably the author of every,
you use a package that he wrote for sure.
He's responsible for
300 billion downloads a year on NPM,
or a month, I can't remember what it is,
it's a staggering amount.
But he writes these tiny packages.
Like he'll write ones though
that take require and
you pass a require function in, and
then you call it a different require.
And there's no way for bundlers to be
able to statically analyze this stuff.
We can't know without evaluating the code
what's happening with this function.
And so,
>> Sean Larkin: You end up with a lot of
problems with getting
really bloated bundles.
And then there's no support for lazy
loading in a way that we would expect.
Require sure it is kind of dynamic, but
there's no way to asynchronously load
something, especially for the web.
>> Sean Larkin: And like i said,
CommonJS is just too dynamic of
a module format to be able to have
really optimized code.
>> Sean Larkin: And
then the scary thing was not
everybody was shipping CommonJS.
Like we had AMD which cropped up.
So who's seen the AMD module pattern?
You can thank Dojo for that I think or
I think it came out of Dojo.
>> Sean Larkin: Even we had some libraries
at Microsoft who use AMD today and
it just kills me.
Who has tried to bundle
Moment.js with webpack and
notice they end up with like
3 billion megabytes of code?
That's because they're using AMD and
they're doing it too dynamic.
They're using some dynamic
capabilities of AMD that
cause you to pull in every locale.
If moment was just shipped in ESM,
you wouldn't have any issues,
but with legacy code,
we all struggle with legacy things.
Even Monaco in VS Code
is written entirely AMD.
And one of the things I'm working
right now with them is trying to
push them as far away as
possible from using AMD
anymore.
>> Sean Larkin: And so,
this is also like a design pattern,
the angular kind of tough day like
we want dependency injections.
And this was before modules were a thing,
right, and so
it's seemed like a good idea.
And then there's also AMD + CommonJS, this
is a thing, I would never write this but
I've seen it done before.
>> Sean Larkin: But
there's problems, like it's too dynamic,
the MomentJS scenario.
And it's more than just that, if you try
to run the Monaco Editor, which is like so
it's what gives you the VS Code
like IEEE experience.
Basically, code Sandbox in stacklets
basically just took Monaco Editor and
threw it up in a browser where
it originally started to like,
it's the same thing.
But you'll find out very quickly
that that's five megs of code,
if you tried to bundle it.
>> Sean Larkin: And,
the syntax is really awkward.
It's non-standard, not even node,
nor the browser supports it.
So it's not even a real module system.